README for Burn Tools ( a SpaceFM Plugin ) by IgnorantGuru

Updated: v0.5.0   2012-Dec-27   beta

Thanks to Thomas Schmitt and OmegaPhil for help and testing.


CONTENTS

    DESCRIPTION
    DEPENDENCIES
    INSTRUCTIONS
    LICENSE


DESCRIPTION

The Burn Tools plugin allows SpaceFM to be used as a simple GUI burning
app.  While it can be used as-is, it also allows you to easily
customize burn commands and add additional functionality.  You are also
free to release modified versions of this plugin under a new name.

To create disc content, files, folders, or links are placed in a burn
directory, while the plugin displays the total size of files and
remaining space on disc.  Alternatively, an existing filesystem image
can be burned, or a disc can be copied.

This version of Burn Tools burns single session data discs only.  It
optionally save md5 checksums for all files on the disc, so a disc can
later be verified even if the original files are gone.  It uses either
mkisofs, xorrisofs, or genisoimage to create a filesystem image as a
separate step, then uses cdrecord, cdrskin, or wodim to burn the
image.  It can optionally save a snapshot of disc contents after the
burn.  Finally, it can verify the burn by verifying checksums,
comparing the disc to the filesystem image, or comparing disc contents
to directory contents.

    Burn Tools adds the following commands to SpaceFM:

    Burn Disc            Prepares disc content and burns a directory or image
                         to disc, or copies a disc.  Also adds checksums,
                         takes a snapshot, and verifies.  Includes a
                         configuration dialog.

    Verify Disc          Verifies disc content by checking on-disc checksums,
                         comparing the disc to an image, or comparing disc
                         contents to a directory.

    Take Snapshot        Saves a text file snapshot of disc contents for later
                         reference and searching.

    Find In Snapshots    Searches through snapshots to find files or using a
                         regex expression.


DEPENDENCIES

    Burn Tools REQUIRES:

        spacefm v0.8.3 or later
        cdrecord OR cdrskin OR wodim         (OR customize your burn commands)
        mkisofs OR xorrisofs OR genisoimage  (OR customize your burn commands)
        udevil
        eject

    NOTE:  Use of the genuine cdrtools or cdrskin is recommended over wodim
           (cdrkit).  See http://cdrecord.berlios.de/private/linux-dist.html


INSTRUCTIONS

    Select Plugins|Burn Tools|Burn Disc to open the Burn Disc dialog (this
    command can also be copied to another menu).  This dialog is used to
    compose disc contents and monitor burn progress.  The dialog has the
    following elements:

    Burn Dir:|Burn Image:|Copy Disc:
    At the top of the dialog, choose the burn function and enter a path
    to be burned - either a directory, an image location, or a drive to
    copy.  When using Burn Dir, typically you will create a temporary
    directory to hold your disc contents, then paste links to files and
    folders into this directory.  While the Burn Disc dialog is open,
    SpaceFM's status bars will show the deep size of all selected items.
    The deep size calculation follows links and descends into directories
    for a total size.  Also, the Burn Disc task listed in the task manager
    will show the total space used and available for the burn, similar to a
    GUI burning app.

    Type:
    Select a media or burn type.  By default the type will be set based on
    the media currently in the drive, but can also be changed.  If no media
    is in the drive, the type, if recognized, will determine how much free
    space is available.  A custom type can also be entered in the box, or
    added to the list with the Configure button.  (All types are handled by
    the default burn command the same way, but you can add additional
    functionality which uses the Type to conditionally burn in different
    ways.)

    Speed:
    The speed at which to burn.  If set to Max or empty, the default speed
    is used (usually the maximum for the media).  Otherwise the speed is
    passed to cdrecord.  The dialog will remember the last speed used for
    each Type.

    Label:
    The volume label of the disc.  This is set by default to the current
    label of the disc in the drive, or to the name of the burn directory.

    Checksums
    If checked, md5sum will be used to generate checksums for all files on
    the disc, and a gzipped checksum file will be burned to the disc,
    allowing the disc to be verified after the burn or anytime later.

    Snapshot
    When checked, a save dialog will open allowing you to choose a snapshot
    filename.  A snapshot is a text file containing a directory listing of
    the disc, created after the burn.  Snapshots allow you to review or
    search what files are burned to what discs.

    Save Image
    When checked, a save dialog will open allowing you to choose an image
    filename.  The filesystem image will be saved to this name rather than
    deleted when the burn is finished.

    Don't Verify|Verify Checksums|Compare To Image|Compare To Dir
    Sets the mode for data verification after burning.  Depending on the
    burn function, not all methods may be allowed.

    Configure [button]
    Opens a Configuration dialog which allows you to change:

        Burner:
        The drive used to burn (eg /dev/sr0)

        Large Temp Dir:
        If specified, temporary image files will be saved to this directory
        rather than to the default SpaceFM tmp directory.  Image files may
        be as large as the media being burned.

        Notify Command:
        When a burn has completed (successfully or with errors), the bash
        command line in Notify Command will be run.  This can be used to
        play a sound, show a dialog, etc. to get attention.  Note that the
        command is run via eval, which means some special characters may
        need to be escaped.

        Verbose Output
        Show detailed output in the monitor - useful for debugging burn
        commands, etc.

        Types: & Speeds:
        Entries in these lists will appear in the drop-down lists of the
        dialog.  You can add additional types and speeds here.

        Select a file to edit...
        Selecting a file in this drop-down list will open it in your
        editor.  In particular, the default burn programs can be set in
        config.sh, and the burn commands can be modified in burn.sh.  Note
        that you will be unable to save the edited file unless you have
        copied the Burn Disc command from Plugins to another menu (plugins
        cannot be edited directly by the user).

    Save Log [button]
    Saves the contents of the monitor to a file you specify.

    Cancel [button]
    Cancels whatever task is in progress, or closes the dialog.

    Burn [button]
    Starts the burn process.


SUPPORT

    For issues with this plugin, please post an issue to
        https://github.com/IgnorantGuru/spacefm/issues
    or email IgnorantGuru <ignorantguru@gmx.com>

    Support is provided for the Burn Tools GUI and internal functionality,
    but not for general errors or failures in the burn programs (eg
    cdrecord, etc), which you will need to research independently.


LICENSE

    Copyright (C) 2012 IgnorantGuru <ignorantguru@gmx.com>

    This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 2 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

